---
permalink: /posts/en/mhfa
date: 2022-11-28
title: 'Mental Health First Aid'
tags:
  - cool
---

This post serves as my reflection to the Mental Health First Aid course that I have been taking.

### The first session (Nov 7, 2022)

That is a great session. When I signed up for attendance, I recognized that there is another Vietnamese person enrolled in this course this session.  I was so eager to meet her there, but a lot of people came, still couldn't see her. I thought that she gave up the course, but no :) When we introduced ourself, I finally recognized her. With face mask, it's pretty hard to recognize people whom I don't meet for a while, haha.

Btw, go back to the main topic. People who attended the training session are from different background, most from School of Engineering, no one is UG, and 1 of them has .. his own company for nearly 20 years. He is over 40, I think, and currently enrols in MBA program of our university. During the session, the instructor, who has British accent, introduce several concepts of mental health issues, specifically depression for this session, to us. These info are all useful, and I think I already know some of them. The (new/recalled) knowledge that I love the most is the definition of recovery from mental health issue, which is just able to manage our lives again, but no need to get rid of all the problem.

In the last 1 hour of the session, we had a group discussion about the choice of physical and mental health problems. Some of us chose physical, and the old guy was serious to debate about it as if the mental one is recoverable and the physical one is not, what did we choose. Okay, but of course in the real scenarios, we don't know if we can recover or not, otherwise we don't mind to choose. Another question raised, as he challenged me if both are not recoverable, that we lose some parts of our body, what should I choose? I said it depended. For me, not to have/losing a thing is still better that we have it but we do not (want to) use, e.g when we are depressed. For other people, they may disagree to me. It's fine.